# What are they?

- Design pattern are `well tested`, reusable solution.
- They are like solution template for how to solve common `software engineering` problems.
- They are `flexible` and `adaptable`.
- They save time because they are optimal.

# Why use them?

# Categories design pattern:

Design pattern are divided into 3 categories.

1. Creational
2. Structural
3. Behavioral

**`Creational`**:

Creational design pattern are design pattern that manage `object creation` mechanisms.

They are designed to create `object` in flexible and highly adaptable ways. These patterns offer the most reusable and flexible ways of creating object instances.

- Singleton
- Factory method pattern
- Builder pattern

<br/>

**`Structural`**:

Structural Design Pattern are design patterns that improve and simplify your designs by identifying the most and reusable way to composing relationships among entities.
They allow for the best and most efficient ways of creating complex hierarchies of objects.

- Adapter pattern

**`Behavioral`**:

Behavioral design pattern are design pattern that improve interaction and communication between objects.
These pattern offer loosely coupled ways of allowing object to `talk` to each other and exchange messages.

- Strategy Pattern
- Observer Pattern
- State Pattern

# Development cycle:

- `Requirements`: Gather and document requirements for the `UI, UX` and general goal of the project.

- `Design`: Architect the system based on the requirements.
- `Implementation`: Code and test the solution to ensure that it follow the design and fulfill the requirement

  - Requirement docs
  - Design docs
  - UI/UX
  - Tests
  - Deployment docs
  - Audit
  - Logs
  - Architecture docs
  - ERD/UML
  - Design patterns
  - Source code
  - Analytics

# Why uml?

UML is a good tool to document somthing as well defined as `Design Pattern`. Design pattern are well understood and `UML` communicates their structure very well.

We will only use `Class diagrams`, and `Sequence diagrams`.

**`Class diagrams:`**
They are used to convey the structure of a design pattern

**`Sequence diagrams:`**
They are used to interaction of the main object/classes.
